management risk tools and operational safeguards

logging and recording algorithms input and output parameters for supervisory investigations and back testing

business model of HFTs that relies on minimizing risk, keeping positions for
shortest periods and staying mostly flat

co-location and proximity services are implemented on a level playing field

volatility safeguards

Micro-structural Issues


# HFT SEVERAL ACCADEMIC DEFINITIONS
Algorithmic trading is the use of computer algorithms to execute human generated,
pre-designated trading decisions and is designed specifically to minimize price
impact.


The speed and quality of access to such markets encourages the use of algorithmic
trading (AT denotes algorithmic traders as well), commonly defined as the use of
computer algorithms to automatically make trading decisions, submit orders, and
manage those orders after submission.


In algorithmic trading (AT), computers directly interface with trading platforms,
placing orders without immediate human intervention. The computers observe
market data and possibly other information at very high frequency, and, based on a
built-in algorithm, send back trading instructions, often within milliseconds. A
variety of algorithms are used: for example, some look for arbitrage opportunities,
including small discrepancies in the exchange rates between three currencies; some
seek optimal execution of large orders at the minimum cost; and some seek to
implement longer-term trading strategies in search of profits. Among the most
recent developments in algorithmic trading, some algorithms now automatically
read and interpret economic data releases, generating trading orders before
economists have begun to read the first line.


Electronic limit order markets enable agents to automate trading decisions.
Computer algorithms are used to either minimize transaction cost when trading into
position (working an order through time and across markets or to simply profit
from buying and selling securities as a middleman). This latter type is the focus of
our study and is often referred to as high-frequency trading (HFT).


The term is relatively new and is not yet clearly defined. It typically is used to refer to
professional traders acting in a proprietary capacity that engage in strategies that generate a
large number of trades on a daily basis. These traders could be organized in a variety of ways,
including as a proprietary trading firm (which may or may not be a registered broker-dealer
and member of FINRA), as the proprietary trading desk of a multi-service broker-dealer, or
as a hedge fund (all of which are referred to hereinafter collectively as a ―proprietary firm‖).
Other characteristics often attributed to proprietary firms engaged in HFT are: (1) the use of
extraordinarily high-speed and sophisticated computer programs for generating, routing, and
executing orders; (2) use of co-location services and individual data feeds offered by
exchanges and others to minimize network and other types of latencies; (3) very short time-
frames for establishing and liquidating positions; (4) the submission of numerous orders that
are cancelled shortly after submission; and (5) ending the trading day in as close to a flat
position as possible (that is, not carrying significant, unhedged positions over-night).



HFT is a form of automated trading and is generally understood as implying speed. Using
very sophisticated computers and IT programs, HF traders execute trades in matters of
milliseconds on electronic order books and hold new equity positions possibly down to a
―sub-second‖. HFT generally involves getting in and out of positions throughout the day with
a „flat‟ position at the end of the day. HF traders use their own capital and do not act on
behalf of clients. HF traders follow different strategies (e.g. arbitrage, trading on prices which
appear out of equilibrium, trading on perceived trading patterns, etc.) but are generally geared
towards extracting very small margins from trading financial instruments between different
trading platforms at hyper fast speed.

